WELCOME, WELCOME ONE AND ALL TO
"THE LATE SHOW."
I'M YOUR HOST, STEPHEN COLBERT.
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
EVERYBODY'S EXCITED BECAUSE
TONIGHT, TRUMP GAVE HIS STATE OF
THE UNION, AND WE ARE LIVE, IF
WHAT YOU CALL WHAT WE JUST
WATCHED "LIVE."
IT WAS PRETTY RAUCOUS ON THE
REPUBLICAN SIDE, I'LL TELL YOU
THAT MUCH.
PRETTY QUIET ON THE DEMOCRACY
SIDE BECAUSE IT WASINANCY'S
HOUSE.
SHE SHOWED GREAT RESTRAINT.
SHE DID NOT STICK ON OUT HER
TONGUE ONCE.
THIS WASN'T A PARTICULARLY GOOD
SPEECH, BUT WHAT IT LACKED IN
QUALITY, IT MADE UP IN LENGTH.
(  LAUGHTER  )
IT WAS-- IT WAS LIKE--
( APPLAUSE )
THIS SPEECH WAS LIKE WATCHING
PAINT LIE.
(  LAUGHTER  )
NOW, LEADING UP TO THE BIG
SPEECH THE PRESIDENT REFUSED TO
GIVE ANY SPOILERS.
>> YOU'LL HEAR THE STATE OF THE
UNION AND THEN YOU'LL SEE WHAT
HAPPENS RIGHT AFTER THE STATE OF
THE UNION.
>> Stephen: OKAY, YES.
THAT IS HOW TIME WORKS.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THROUGHOUT THE SPEECH, TRUMP
STUCK TO HIS TELEPROMPTER MOST
OF THE NIGHT.
HIS STAFF TRIED TO KEEP HIM
FOCUSED ON THE PROMPTER BY
ADDING A BOUNCY CHEESEBURGER.
(  LAUGHTER  )
SNAP IN!
WHAT, WHAT, WHAT, WHAT!
NO SURPRISE, THE DEMOCRATS WHO
HAVE ANNOUNCED THEIR 2020
CAMPAIGNS,  ALREADY REALLY TRIED
TO MAKE A SPLASH WITH THEIR
GUESTS.
ELIZABETH WARREN BROUGHT AN
EMPLOYEE OF THE U.S. DEPARTMENT
OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
FURLOUGHED DURING THE GOVERNMENT
SHUTDOWN.
KAMALA HARRIS BROUGHT AN AIR
TRAFFIC CONTROLLER WHO WENT
WITHOUT A PAYCHECK DURING THE
SHUTDOWN AND LOST HER HOME IN A
WILDFIRE.
NOT TO BE OUTDONE, SENATOR CORY
BOOKER BROUGHT A HERO FROM HIS
HOMETOWN OF NEWARK: A FLAMING
PARKED CAR.
(  LAUGHTER  )
STAY STROK, FLAMING PARKED CAR!
EARLY-- EARLY IN THE EVENING, I
HAD HIGH HOPES.
I HAD HIGH HOPES.
ESPECIALLY WHEN CNN TEASED US
WITH THIS GRAPHIC:
"TRUMP LEAVES WHITE HOUSE SOON."
COME ON!
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
YOU CAN'T-- YOU CAN'T TEASE US.
THAT'S NOT COOL!
CNN, UNCOOL, CNN.
"THIS JUST IN: PRESIDENT TRUMP
HAS OFFICIALLY STEPPED DOWN...
THE FRONT STAIRS TO GET IN HIS
CAR."
(  LAUGHTER  )
EVERYBODY WAS THERE, INCLUDING
DON JR., WHO APPARENTLY ARRIVED
WITH POLICE.
KIND OF HOW IT IS FOR HIM NOW.
COPS HANG OUT NEAR HIM WITH
CUFFS OPEN AND READY.
(  LAUGHTER  )
TRUMP STARTED THE NIGHT BY
CHOOSING ENERGY SECRETARY RICK
PERRY AS THE DESIGNATED
SURVIVOR.
SO THAT'S IN CASE, IF
SOMETHING-- GOD FORBID--
HAPPENED AT THE CAPITOL
TONIGHT-- A METEOR TOOK OUT ALL
OUR LEADERSHIP, RICK PERRY WOULD
BE OUR OWN HOPE.
AND AN EXPERT ON RICK PERRY HAS
THIS REACTION TO THAT CHOICE:
>> OOPS.
>> Stephen: OOPS, INDEED.
OOPS, INDEED.
STATE OF THE UNION, ALWAYS A BIG
NIGHT.
ALWAYS A BIG NIGHT.
EVERYBODY WHO WAS ANYBODY WHO
WAS NOT INDICTED WAS THERE.
LET'S SEE, DEMOCRATIC WOMEN WORE
WHITE TO COMMEMORATE THE
SUFFRAGETTES.
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
BEAUTIFUL.
>> Stephen:
>> Jon: YEAH, THAT'S AMAZING.
I LOVE THAT.
>> Stephen: BEAUTIFUL.
( APPLAUSE )
SO, SO THE DEMOCRATIC SIDE WAS A
SEA OF WHITE, AND THE REPUBLICAN
SIDE ALSO A SEA OF WHITE.
( APPLAUSE )
NOW, AS HE ENTERED, HE DID THE
NORMAL HANDSHAKING, SHAKING THE
HAND OF THE PEOPLE WHO WILL
EVENTUALLY DECIDE IF HE CAN BE
INDICTED.
IT WAS A WIDE-RANGING SPEECH.
TRUMP HONORED SOME WONDERFUL
CHILDREN, SOME WORLD WAR II
VETERANS, SOME FORMER PRISONERS
WHO WERE FREED BY CLEMENCY OR
THE NEW PRISON REFORM.
I THINK HE DECLARED HIMSELF
PRESIDENT OF VENEZUELA AT ONE
POINT.
WHEN THE SPEECH BEGAN, ONE OF
THE FIRST THINGS TRUMP DID WAS
INTRODUCE HIS WIFE.
>> MADAM SPEAKER, MR. VICE
PRESIDENT, MEMBERS OF CONGRESS,
THE FIRST LADY OF THE UNITED
STATES.
( APPLAUSE )
( CHEERS )
>> Stephen: THAT'S A REALLY
SMART MOVE:  SAY WHO SHE IS,
THEN WAIT FOR HER TO STAWND
BEFORE ACKNOWLEDGING HER.
(  LAUGHTER  )
THAT IS THE "HEY, CHAMP" OF
FORGETTING WHO YOU ARE CURRENTLY
MARRIED TO.
HE STARTED-- HE STARTED THE
EVENING-- "WHAT'S UP, BIG GUY?"
HE STARTED WITH A CALL FOR
BIPARTISANSHIP:
>> THE AGENDA I WILL LAY OUT
THIS EVENING IS NOT A REPUBLICAN
AGENDA OR A DEMOCRAT AGENDA.
IT'S THE AGENDA OF THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE.
>> Stephen: "CAN SOMEBODY PLEASE
TELL THEM THESE WERE THEIR
IDEAS?
BECAUSE I'M GETTING KILLED IN
THE POLLS RIGHT NOW."
AND HE TOOK A MOMENT TO TOUT
AMERICAN GREATNESS.
>> AMERICA SAVED FREEDOM,
TRANSFORMED SCIENCE, REDEFINED
THE MIDDLE CLASS, AND WHEN YOU
GET DOWN TO IT, THERE'S NOTHING
ANYWHERE IN THE WORLD THAT CAN
COMPETE WITH AMERICA.
>> Stephen: (AS TRUMP):
"HOME OF THE WHOPPER, UNDEFEATED
HEAVYWEIGHT CHAMPION OF THE
WORLD.
AMERICA: IT'S EVERYWHERE YOU
WANNA BE.
BA-DA-BA-BA-BA, I'M LOVING IT."
I COULD GO FOR ONE.
I'M LOVING IT, JON.
>> Jon: IT'S A LITTLE LATE FOR
THAT.
I AM NOT MESSING WITH THAT.
>> Stephen: AND HE PRESENTED A
STARK CHOICE:
>> WE MUST CHOOSE BETWEEN
GREATNESS OR GRIDLOCK, RESULTS
OR RESISTANCE, VISION OR
VENGEANCE, INCREDIBLE PROGRESS
OR POINTLESS DESTRUCTION.
>> Stephen: (AS TRUMP):
"SOUP OR SALAD, PAPER OR
PLASTIC, ROSS AND RACHEL,
ALIEN V. PREDATOR...
WHOEVER WINS, WE LOSE."
(  LAUGHTER  )
AND, OF COURSE--
( APPLAUSE )
PREDATOR FANS.
ALIEN VERSUS PREDATOR.
OF COURSE, HE BRAGGED MORE ABOUT
THE ECONOMY:
>> AND WE ARE CONSIDERED, FAR
AND AWAY, THE HOTTEST ECONOMY
ANYWHERE IN THE WORLD.
>> Stephen: (AS TRUMP):
"IT IS SO HOT, IF IT WASN'T MY
ECONOMY, PERHAPS I'D BE DATING
IT."
>> Jon: OH, NO!
OH, NO!
>> Stephen: "JON, I'M TELLING
YOU, JON, YOU KNOW, I LOVE A HOT
ECONOMY."
THE EVENING WENT ON...
AND ON.
(  LAUGHTER  )
G.O.P. LAWMAKERS STOOD UP AND
SAT DOWN SO MANY TIMES, IT
SOUNDED LIKE THEY WERE MAKING
POPCORN WITH THEIR KNEECAPS.
(  LAUGHTER  )
HE MADE A NOT-SO-SUBTLE THREAT
TO HOUSE DEMOCRATS.
>> AN ECONOMIC MIRACLE IS TAKING
PLACE IN THE UNITED STATES, AND
THE ONLY THING THAT CAN STOP IT
ARE FOOLISH WARS, POLITICS, OR
RIDICULOUS PARTISAN
INVESTIGATIONS.
>> Stephen: "YOU HEARD ME, YOU
GET THE TRUTH OR A FUNCTIONING
ECONOMY, OKAY.
KEEP IN MIND, I TURNED THIS
SUCKER OFF FOR A MONTH OVER A
WALL.
YOU THINK I WON'T BURN THIS
PLACE TO THE GROUND TO STAY OUT
OF JAIL?
OKAY.
I'M JUST SAYING NICE COUNTRY YOU
GOT HERE, SHAME-- SHAME IF
SOMETHING HAPPENED TO IT."
( APPLAUSE )
IN THAT SAME VAIN, HE KEPT GOING
IN WHAT HE CLEARLY THOUGHT WAS A
LINE THAT WOULD GET A STANDING
OVATION.
>> IF THERE IS GOING TO BE PEACE
AND LEGISLATION, THERE CANNOT BE
WAR AND INVESTIGATION.
IT JUST DOESN'T WORK THAT WAY!
( SINGLE CLAP )
(  LAUGHTER  )
>> Stephen: EVEN-- EVEN THE
REPUBLICANS WERE LIKE-- HEY!
DID HE... WHAT?
WHAT-- NICE TRY ON THAT
ARGUMENT."
"YOU CAN'T HAVE LEGISLATION AND
INVESTIGATION.
WHOEVER HEARD OF LAW AND ORDER?
COME ON.
( APPLAUSE )
YOU CAN'T HAVE BOTH.
YOU HAVE TO CHOOSE.
JON, YOU HAVE TO CHOOSE.
YOU HAVE TO GIVE ME THAT ONE.
YOU HAVE TO GIVE ME THAT ONE."
( APPLAUSE )
AND TRUMP TALKED THE TALK ON
IMMIGRATION.
>> NOW IS THE TIME FOR CONGRESS
TO SHOW THE WORLD THAT AMERICA
IS COMMITTED TO ENDING ILLEGAL
IMMIGRATION AND PUTTING THE
RUTHLESS COYOTES, CARTELS, DRUG
DEALERS, AND HUMAN TRAFFICKERS
OUT OF BUSINESS.
>> Stephen: AND NO ONE KNOWS
HOW TO PUT SOMETHING OUT OF
BUSINESS LIKE DONALD TRUMP.
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
YOU CAN TAKE THAT TO THE BANK!
BECAUSE THEY ARE REPOSSESSING IT
IN THE CHAPTER 11!
NOW, TRUMP KNOWS-- TRUMP KNOWS
IMMIGRANTS ARE TAKING AMERICAN
JOBS.
>> WORKING CLASS AMERICANS ARE
LEFT TO PAY THE PRICE FOR MASS
ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION:  REDUCED
JOBS.
>> Stephen: BUT HE ALSO KNOWS
THIS:
>> MORE PEOPLE ARE WORKING NOW
THAN AT ANY TIME IN THE HISTORY
OF OUR COUNTRY.
>> Stephen: THE BOTH OF THOSE
THINGS ARE TRUE, IF YOU DON'T
THINK ABOUT IT TOO HARD.
I DON'T.
I DON'T THINK ABOUT IT AT ALL.
OKAY.
YES AND NO."
AND HE LAID OUT A STRONG
ARGUMENT AGAINST ILLEGAL
IMMIGRATION.
>> TOLERANCE FOR ILLEGAL
IMMIGRATION IS NOT COMPASSION
COMPASSIONATE.
IT IS ACTUALLY VERY CRUEL.
>> Stephen: "I MEAN, NOT KIDS
IN CAGES CRUEL, BUT, STILL,
PRETTY BAD."
THE POINT IS-- AND THIS IS MY
POINT ULTIMATELY-- TOLERANCE IS
CRUELTY.
WAR IS PEACE.
FREEDOM OF SLAVERY, AND I WEIGH
239 POUNDS.
( LAUGHTER )
( APPLAUSE )
TRUMP-- TRUMP--
TRUMP WAS BRAVELY WILLING TO
TAKE CREDIT FOR ANY GOOD THING
THAT HAPPENED IN THE COUNTRY.
>> NO ONE HAS BENEFITED MORE
FROM A THRIVING ECONOMY THAN
WOMEN WHO HAVE FILLED 58% OF THE
NEWLY CREATED JOBS LAST YEAR.
( APPLAUSE )
>> Stephen: THEY'RE WAY AHEAD
OF YOU, DON.
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
>> Jon: WOOOOO!
WOOOO!
>> Stephen: MOST OF THOSE JOBS
WERE NEW DEMOCRATIC WOMEN IN
CONGRESS.
AND TRUMP SUPPORTED THEIR
CELEBRATION WITH THIS:
>> YOU WEREN'T SUPPOSED TO DO
THAT.
>> Stephen: DONALD TRUMP
TRYING TO TELL WOMEN WHAT TO DO
IS WHY THEY WON.
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
BUT-- BUT-- BUT--
BUT COME ON, TRUMP ROLLED WITH
IT.
>> DON'T SIT YET.
YOU'RE GOING TO LIKE THIS.
>> Stephen: "I RESIGN."
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
IS THAT NOT WHAT HE SAID?
>> Jon: THAT'S NOT WHAT HE
SAID.
>> Stephen: AND HE ROLLED OUT
SOME POLICY PROPOSALS TO APPEAL
TO WORKING PARENTS.
>> I AM ALSO PROUD TO BE THE
FIRST PRESIDENT TO INCLUDE IN MY
BUDGET A PLAN FOR NATIONWIDE
PAID FAMILY LEAVE SO THAT EVERY
NEW PARENT HAS THE CHANCE TO
BOND WITH THEIR NEWBORN CHILD.
>> Stephen: "BECAUSE, YOU
KNOW, SOME PEOPLE ARE TOO BUSY
TO BOND WITH THEIR WIFE AND
NEWBORN CHILD.
UNSTEAD, THEY'RE FORCED TO GO TO
A VODKA LAUNCH PARTY AND TAG A
PORN STAR.
I'M SORRY.
NOT ON MY WATCH!
NO, NO, I'M SORRY.
I MEANT TO SAY NOT WHILE ANYONE
IS WATCHING ME."
TRUMP ALSO MADE-- GETS YOU.
IT GETS YOU-- GETS YOU RIGHT
THERE, CHRIS.
TRUCH ALSO MADE A BIG
ANNOUNCEMENT ABOUT HIS BUDDY,
KIM JONG-UN.
>> CHAIRMAN KIM AND I WILL MEET
AGAIN ON FEBRUARY 27 AND 28 IN
VIETNAM.
>> Stephen: "UNLESS MY BONE
SPURS ACT UP.
IN WHICH CASE, I'M SENDING ERIC,
OKAY?
STRAP ON.
STRAP ON, ERIC."
( APPLAUSE )
TRUMP MADE SURE TO INSIST THAT
THIS GOVERNMENT WILL STRICTLY
ENFORCE ITS SMALL-GOVERNMENT
STANCE.
>> WE ARE ALARMED BY THE NEW
CALLS TO ADOPT SOCIALISM IN OUR
COUNTRY.
( BOOING )
AMERICA WAS FOUNDED ON LIBERTY
AND INDEPENDENCE AND NOT
GOVERNMENT COERCION, DOMINATION,
AND CONTROL.
WE ARE BORN FREE AND WE WILL
STAY FREE.
( APPLAUSE )
>> Stephen: JIMMY, HOLD ON.
I BELIEVE WE HAD A MIC ON BERNIE
SANDERSINAR.
CAN WE-- CAN WE GO BACK AND TURN
THAT UP?
>> WE ARE BORN FREE AND WE WILL
STAY FREE.
( APPLAUSE )
( "CURB YOUR ENTHUSIASM THEME."
>> THEN HE RAMPED UP FOR HIS BIG
FINISH.
>> TOGETHER WE REPRESENT THE
MOST EXTRAORDINARY NATION IN ALL
OF HISTORY.
WHAT WILL WE DO WITH THIS
MOMENT?
HOW WILL WE BE REMEMBERED?
>> Stephen: "HOW MANY YEARS
WILL WE SERVE, AND WILL WE GET
TIME OFF FOR GOOD BEHAVIOR?"
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
AND-- AND--
AND HE ENDED HIS SPEECH WITH
SOME LOFTY WORDS.
>> THIS IS THE TIME TO SEARCH
FOR THE TALLEST SUMMIT AND SET
OUR SIGHTS ON THE BRIGHTEST
STAR.
>> Stephen: THAT I BELIEVE,
BECAUSE I ACTUALLY REMEMBER
SEEING TRUMP SET HIS SIGHTS ON
THE BRIGHTEST STAR.
( APPLAUSE )
AND THAT-- THAT HE BROUGHT IT
ALL HOME, HE BROUGHT IT ALL HOME
WITH A SIMPLE PLEA.
>> I ASKING YOU TO CHOOSE
GREATNESS.
NO MATTER THE TRIALS WE FACE.
>> Stephen: WELL, IN THAT
CASE, SIR, I CHOOSE YOU FACE A
TRIAL BECAUSE THAT WILL BE
GREAT.
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
WE'VE GOT A FANTASTIC SHOW FUR
TONIGHT.
THE TEAM FROM "CBS THIS MORNING"
IS HERE.
SPIKE LEE IS HERE.
STICK AROUND.
WE'VE JUST BEGUN.
AND IT'S LIVE!